Notes on Going through the Django Unleashed Tutorial

Chapter 1

Before starting:

    Created a "DjangoUnleashed" folder in my Documents directory
    
    Installed Python 3.5.1
        Go to www.python.org
        Click around until you find the python version for 64bit computers
        Download the program
        Install
            Be sure to check the box "Add Python 3.5 to PATH"
            Had some trouble since, by default, it installed in the AppData folder instead of C:/Python35
            Entered the custom install first, clicked "Install for all Users" then backed into the original
                page
        I don't know if I get to use this however -- see the virtual environment section below
    
    Created a GitHub Repository
        Go to www.github.com
        Click the green button labeled "+ New repository"
        Name the repository "djututorial"
        Added a description
        Checked the box:  "Initial this repository with a README"
        Clicked the green button labeled "Create Repository"
        (This created a repository with a README.md file which included the repository name and description)
        
    Cloned the repository to the DjangoUnleashed folder
        git clone https://github.com/jmorris1575/djututorial
        (note your username on GitHub)
        (Note:  your password is pet+kzoo)
        This created a djututorial folder in the DjangoUnleashed folder containing the README.md file and
            the .git folder.  I think I wanted them in the top-level folder created by Django.  Hopefully,
            I can move them and git will follow the change.
        
    Created a virtual environment: dju
        run the command: mkvirtualenv dju
            this created an environment using python3.4.4 (virtualenvwrapper for 3.5 is not yet available)
            
    Installed Django to the virtual environment:
        pip install django
            Successfully installed django-1.9.1
        

Starting the Project:
    
    cd documents/djangounleashed/suorganizer
    django-admin startproject suorganizer
    
    Started Django's Runserver in another command window to test the site
        it worked in spite of not doing python manage.py migrate
        
Continued on following the book's instructions...

When it came to making the first git commit I found I had to git add <file> for each and every
file and directory listed as untracked in git status.  There may be an easier way.

I had a hard time pushing it to github so I deleted the existing djututorial repository and
created a new one without a README.md file (as github suggested since I was planning on pushing
an existing repository)  After creating the new djututorial repository it gave me some helpful instructions:

     We recommend every repository include a README, LICENSE, and .gitignore.
    …or create a new repository on the command line

    echo "# djututorial" >> README.md
    git init
    git add README.md
    git commit -m "first commit"
    git remote add origin https://github.com/JMorris1575/djututorial.git
    git push -u origin master

    …or push an existing repository from the command line

    git remote add origin https://github.com/JMorris1575/djututorial.git
    git push -u origin master

    …or import code from another repository

    You can initialize this repository with code from a Subversion, Mercurial, or TFS project.
    
I used the second option "push an existing repository..." and it seemed to work well.

Section 3.6
    python manage.py check is a good way to check for errors in the models before creating a migrations file
    
    I got a strange error about Django configuration when I tried the line:
        >>> from organizer.models import Tag, Startup, NewsLink
    The problem what that I had gotten into python with:
        (dju) C:\Users...blah, blah, blah...>python
    When I needed to use:
        (dju) ...blah, blah, blah...>python manage.py shell
    which apparently configures django properly.  (See Django tutorial.)
    
    github.com was having problems tonight, it's servers were down, so I simply copied all the files from
    my home computer to this rectory computer.  It all worked except that I updated from Python 3.4.1 to
    Python 3.4.4 in order to try to solve the problem explained immediately above.
    
    When I tried:
        git push origin master
    that worked too, asking me for my username and password on github (JMorris1575, (pet)(kzoo))
    By the way, with the database changes I made, I removed db.sqlite3 from the .gitignore file and
    it is now tracked and saved on github.  (They seem to have fixed whatever the problem was.)
    
    
    
    
    
        

